>> Mike North: So
we can use index signatures
in combination with other types.
And this is where I'm actually
showing off a couple things here.
Number one, I have created another
interface with the same name of
what we were just using, right?
Up here, we had PhoneNumberDict.
>> Mike North: And
now down here, same exact name.
And if we look at this, if I try to
remove it, we're now getting an error.
So let's look below and
study what we've added in order to figure
out why something might be erroring.
What I've added is new types.
They kind of say we have
new required properties.
Everyone must have a home phone number,
and an office phone number.
And, the index signature still
exists underneath all of that.
So that's what's making it so
if we attempt to delete this up here,
we're getting an issue
where home is missing.
Now we could totally add
another one here safely,
>> Mike North: iPhone,
I just need a comma.
And that's fine and we're free to add and
remove this as we see fit.
So you can use index
signatures in combination with
anything else that we have
learned about object types.
>> Mike North: Often this will be a
fallback where you specify certain things
like, we know we can access these things.
So, for example, it would be
convenient to be handed this thing.
I don't have to check whether home and
the office are undefined.
If you know they're present for
sure, it's much nicer to be handed
this thing that's ready to go.
But, there may be optional
extra stuff there and
an index signature would be
a way to facilitate typing that.
>> Mike North: We kind of
demonstrated this already, but
home is definitely there,
office is definitely there.
Mobile will have to be undefined
due to the index signature.
So what we're seeing here
is declaration merging.
>> Mike North: And we're seeing that we
can stack indexes on top of other things.
The last thing I wanna point out
about interfaces loops back to
the type alias discussion
we were having earlier.
Interfaces are kind of like functions,
they're parsed like functions.
In that,
we know that an interface exists and
has a particular name as we
go through in parse things.
But, only when we attempt
to actually access it and
use it will we end up figuring out what
are the allowable types for this thing.
So, type aliases are kind
of sorted out eagerly,
interfaces are sorted out lazily.
So if we were to go up here to our
first example, and we were to say,
we were to try to figure out
a way to make this type work.
If we were just gonna say,
interface number array and
I'm gonna cheat a little bit here,
>> Mike North: Extends.
>> Mike North: And
array of numVals, semicolon,
now this ends up working, why?
Because this is kind of like,
just like a function that's hoisted so
we can refer to it before it's used or
before it's defined.
Numval, by the time we go through and
sort this out, this is actually happy,
it's an interface now.
Until we get down here and
sort out all of this, we don't necessarily
know what this interface can hold.
But at least we can refer to it and
use it as part of the definition for
the type alias.
So you can create things that
are sort of hierarchical types,
self-reverential types.
Some people call this recursive types, but
you can create things like this through
combining types and interfaces.
>> Mike North: Let's
make sure I'm not lying.
>> Mike North: Looks good, let's try this.
>> Mike North: Looks good.
>> Mike North: Four makes it unhappy.
So it can hold our nested arrays,
it can hold the simple values we're
interested in, everything looks copacetic.
>> Mike North: So that's,
hopefully now you understand
the difference between these two.
Type aliases are eager,
interfaces are lazy.
Type aliases are extremely flexible, they
literally can give a name to any type,
anything you would use as the type
of variable fits in a type alias.
Interfaces or what you would wanna use for
things that are objects which includes
functions and includes arrays.
when I say things that are sub-types of
object I mean in the JavaScript sense.
Things that are immutable things, right?
Everything except the primitive
like string, number,
bully, and symbol and the undefined